blog added paralus at platformcon 2023 (#89)
paralus/website: blog/2023-06-14-paralus-at-platformcon-2023/index.md

- **Security Preparedness:** With the right access to the right roles, separation of duties becomes easier to implement and enforce, and it becomes easier for the platform and security teams to protect against unauthorized use.
- **Centralized Visibility:**
Teams should always be able to review alerts, verify cluster health and check metrics that are relevant to them through a single pane of glass.
- **Governance:** Centralizing governance helps prevent violations and creates standardization across your clusters.
- **Kubernetes Distribution Flexibility:** The common practice in the industry is not to deploy a single distribution everywhere but to select the distribution that is best suited for the environment in question.
- **Oriented To Self-Service:**  Standardized, automated shared services help organizations scale teams’ access to compute resources.

Read more about the [guiding principles for platform teams](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2023/02/23/how-to-empower-modern-kubernetes-management-with-a-platform-team-model/?sh=1690484c52c7)

> *In the section below we will be referring to more on this concept **Security Preparedness,** * typical challenges that enterprises face, how paralus can help platform teams enable a seamless kubectl experience, and centralize the config of k8s access controls for their developers across clusters running in public cloud environments and/or on-premise data centers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*In the section below we will be referring to more on this concept **Security Preparedness,** * typical challenges that enterprises face, how Paralus can help platform teams enable a seamless kubectl experience, and centralize the config of Kubernetes access controls for their developers across clusters running in public cloud environments and/or on-premise data centers.
```

The event also featured a diverse range of talks ranging from platform-culture, platform-blueprint, platform-impact to platform-stories. You can watch all the sessions on the  [Platform Engineering YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@PlatformEngineering).  

<!--truncate -->

In this blog post, we'll be sharing our experience of interacting with attendees at [PlatformCon 2023](https://platformcon.com/) virtually, some glimpses of our talk - [Enable secure self-service access to Kubernetes clusters with Paralus](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UbLnCGOv0Rk). where we spoke about how Paralus removes the cognitive load from platform teams working on repetitive tasks including setting up RBAC, revoking permissions, pre-configuring roles across clusters, namespaces, projects, and more.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/UbLnCGOv0Rk" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> During [PlatformCon 2023](https://platformcon.com/), we were inundated with visitors reaching out to us on the Platform Engineering community [slack channel](https://platformengin-b0m7058.slack.com/join/shared_invite/zt-1vsqjlb51-SiDy9cp2EBGffIUj5_g2mA#/shared-invite/email), who were keen to learn more about our project. We had some quick demos on how to use the project, along with some tasty cookies and cool stickers to give away. The visitors were curious about the project and its potential, and some of them even reached out for a dedicated demo of the tool post PlatformCon.   

Reviewer 2: May be add some spacing here, in preview mode this para immediately starts after the video thumbnail

## Traditional challenges of Kubernetes access management

Access management in Kubernetes can pose several challenges, some of which are considered traditional pain points for administrators:

**Complexity**: Kubernetes has a complex access control model, involving multiple components and concepts like Roles, RoleBindings, ServiceAccounts, and ClusterRoles. Understanding and managing these components can be challenging, especially for beginners or organizations without prior experience with Kubernetes.

**Granularity vs. Complexity Tradeoff**: Kubernetes provides fine-grained access control, allowing administrators to define highly specific access policies. However, this level of granularity can lead to increased complexity in managing and maintaining access control rules. Balancing the need for fine-grained access control with simplicity and maintainability is a common challenge.

> **Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) Configuration**: Configuring RBAC policies accurately and efficiently is crucial for secure access management. Designing and implementing RBAC rules that align with an organization's security requirements can be complex, particularly when dealing with a large number of users, teams, and applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) Configuration**: Configuring RBAC policies accurately and efficiently is crucial for secure access management. Designing and implementing RBAC rules that align with an organization's security requirements can be complex, particularly when dealing with a large number of clusters, users, teams, and applications.
```

**Secrets Management**: Kubernetes has a built-in Secrets API to manage sensitive information, but securely managing access to these secrets can be challenging. Ensuring that only authorized entities can access and use secrets while keeping them protected from unauthorized access or accidental exposure requires careful configuration and monitoring.

**Auditing and Compliance**: Maintaining audit logs and ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements can be demanding in Kubernetes. Tracking and reviewing access logs, managing permissions and changes, and generating comprehensive reports are essential but can be time-consuming and require specialized tools or integrations.

Addressing these challenges often involves a combination of well-defined processes, training, automation, and the use of specialized tools to simplify access management and enhance security in Kubernetes environments.

> ## Enters Paralus, centralized RBAC and authentication solution

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Enter Paralus, a centralized RBAC and authentication solution
```

[Paralus](https://github.io/paralus/paralus) is an open-source project that focuses on RBAC and authentication in Kubernetes environments. It offers a single pane of glass for RBAC management and enhances security through centralized control. 

<img src="/img/docs/paralus-platformcon-2023.png" alt="how paralus works" height="90%" width="90%"/>  

## Zero-Trust Kubernetes access with Paralus

> Paralus grants authorized users seamless and secure access to all clusters with a native and familiar kubectl experience by acting as a proxy between the users and systems needing access and the K8s API server. It also addresses one of K8s' main pain points by eliminating the burden of managing K8s access controls cluster by cluster. Without Paralus, companies must manually manage access to each cluster using jump hosts or VPNs, and build custom tooling to audit and map all actions performed to a user's identity – all of which which is error-prone and increases the risk of breaches as the number of clusters grows.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Paralus grants authorized users seamless and secure access to all clusters with a native and familiar kubectl experience by acting as a proxy between the users and systems needing access and the K8s API server. It also addresses one of K8s' main pain points by eliminating the burden of managing K8s access controls cluster by cluster. Without Paralus, companies must manually manage access to each cluster using jump hosts or VPNs, and build custom tooling to audit and map all actions performed to a user's identity – all of which is error-prone and increases the risk of breaches as the number of clusters grow.  
```

---
slug: paralus-platformcon-2023
title: "Paralus at PlatformCon - 2023"
authors: [saim]
tags: [paralus]
image: /img/docs/paralus-platformcon-2023-speaker-banner.jpeg 
---

> With over 150 speakers and 20,000 attendees and countless more participated virtually, Platform engineering is constantly evolving. [PlatformCon 2023](https://platformcon.com/), the virtual conference created by and for platform engineers, is proof, it was a hub of activity and excitement for tech enthusiasts and industry professionals alike. Team paralus is so excited to be a part of such a vibrant community for second edition of #PlatformCon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With over 150 speakers and 20,000 attendees [PlatformCon 2023](https://platformcon.com/), the virtual conference created by and for platform engineers was a hub of activity and excitement for tech enthusiasts and industry professionals alike. Team Paralus was also a part of such a vibrant community for the second edition of PlatformCon.
```

> This event brought together a global community of techies, developers, and platform engineers enthusiasts to share the latest advancements and trends in the field of platform engineering. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This event brought together a global community of techies, developers, and platform engineers to share the latest advancements and trends in the field of platform engineering. 
```

> The event also featured a diverse range of talks, covering topics ranging from platform-culture, platform-blueprint, platform-impact to platform-stories. While it was impossible to attend all of them, we have been revisiting some of the talks that were shared on [Platform Engineering YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@PlatformEngineering).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The event also featured a diverse range of talks ranging from platform-culture, platform-blueprint, platform-impact to platform-stories. You can watch all the sessions on the  [Platform Engineering YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@PlatformEngineering).  
```

<!--truncate -->

> In this blog post, we'll be sharing our experience of interacting with attendees at [PlatformCon 2023](https://platformcon.com/) virtually, some glimpses of our talk [Enable secure self-service access to Kubernetes clusters with Paralus](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UbLnCGOv0Rk). how paralus removes the cognitive load from platform team's working on repetitive tasks including setting up RBAC, revoking permissions, pre-configuring roles across clusters, namespaces, projects, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we'll be sharing our experience of interacting with attendees at [PlatformCon 2023](https://platformcon.com/) virtually, some glimpses of our talk - [Enable secure self-service access to Kubernetes clusters with Paralus](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UbLnCGOv0Rk). where we spoke about how Paralus removes the cognitive load from platform teams working on repetitive tasks including setting up RBAC, revoking permissions, pre-configuring roles across clusters, namespaces, projects, and more.
```

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/UbLnCGOv0Rk" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> During [PlatformCon 2023](https://platformcon.com/), we were inundated with visitors reached us on Platform Engineering community [slack channel](https://platformengin-b0m7058.slack.com/join/shared_invite/zt-1vsqjlb51-SiDy9cp2EBGffIUj5_g2mA#/shared-invite/email), who were keen to learn more about our project. We had some quick demos on how to use the project, along with some tasty cookies and cool stickers to give away. The visitors were curious about the project and its potential, and some of them even reached out for a dedicated demo of the tool post-platformcon.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During [PlatformCon 2023](https://platformcon.com/), we were inundated with visitors reaching out to us on the Platform Engineering community [slack channel](https://platformengin-b0m7058.slack.com/join/shared_invite/zt-1vsqjlb51-SiDy9cp2EBGffIUj5_g2mA#/shared-invite/email), who were keen to learn more about our project. We had some quick demos on how to use the project, along with some tasty cookies and cool stickers to give away. The visitors were curious about the project and its potential, and some of them even reached out for a dedicated demo of the tool post PlatformCon.   
```

Reviewer: Did we give away cookies and stickers in a virtual event? Please correct that.

> Big topic during PlatformCon was the concept of platform engineering. As software gets more complex and Kubernetes enters the enterprise, the idea of Kubernetes being a “platform for platforms” is becoming more and more ubiquitous. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Platform engineering was the most discussed topic at PlatformCon. As software gets more complex and Kubernetes enters the enterprise, the idea of Kubernetes being a “platform for platforms” is becoming more and more ubiquitous. 
```

> A bit about “Platform engineering” is a discipline focused on building and maintaining the underlying infrastructure and tools that enable developers to build, deploy, and run software applications efficiently. It involves creating a stable and scalable platform that provides a foundation for software development, deployment, and operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Platform engineering is a discipline focused on building and maintaining the underlying infrastructure and tools that enable developers to build, deploy, and run software applications efficiently. It involves creating a stable and scalable platform that provides a foundation for software development, deployment, and operations.
```

> **[Six Guiding Principles For Platform Teams](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2023/02/23/how-to-empower-modern-kubernetes-management-with-a-platform-team-model/?sh=1690484c52c7)**: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Six Guiding Principles For Platform Teams**
```

> - Consistent Automation

Reviewer: Let us add a one-liner description for each of these principles.

Reviewer: Also let us make these as bullet points as they are easy to read and comprehend.

- Security Preparedness
- Centralized Visibility
- Governance
- Kubernetes Distribution Flexibility
- Oriented To Self-Service

> 

Reviewer: Read more about the [guiding principles for platform teams](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2023/02/23/how-to-empower-modern-kubernetes-management-with-a-platform-team-model/?sh=1690484c52c7)

> *In this blog we will be referring to more on **Kubernetes access management** or better to call it **Security Preparedness:** *

Reviewer: I don't fully understand what we are trying to say here.

Author: I'm saying here above all the guiding principles discussed in the mentioned article, security preparedness we will be referring to more as it relates to the talk I deliver.

> With the right access to the right roles, separation of duties becomes easier to implement and enforce, and it becomes easier for the platform and security teams to protect against unauthorized use.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the right access to the right roles, separation of duties becomes easier to implement and enforce, and it becomes easier for the platform and security teams to protect against unauthorized access.  
```

> ## Why is to Secure Access to k8s Important? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why securing access to Kubernetes is important? 
```

> The inability to secure K8s infrastructure is a growing problem for organizations. In May 2022, a non-profit security organization named [The Shadowserver Foundation](https://www.shadowserver.org/news/over-380-000-open-kubernetes-api-servers/) scanned more than 450,000 systems hosting K8s and found more than 380,000 (84 percent) of these systems were accessible via the Internet, potentially providing an opening into a corporate network. In fact, the data shows that the majority of K8s API servers are found in the United States (nearly 53 percent).

Reviewer: Let us be consistent with using Kubernetes and not K8s. Please update that across the blog post.

## Traditional challenges of Kubernetes access management

Access management in Kubernetes can pose several challenges, some of which are considered traditional pain points for administrators:

**Complexity**: Kubernetes has a complex access control model, involving multiple components and concepts like Roles, RoleBindings, ServiceAccounts, and ClusterRoles. Understanding and managing these components can be challenging, especially for beginners or organizations without prior experience with Kubernetes.

**Granularity vs. Complexity Tradeoff**: Kubernetes provides fine-grained access control, allowing administrators to define highly specific access policies. However, this level of granularity can lead to increased complexity in managing and maintaining access control rules. Balancing the need for fine-grained access control with simplicity and maintainability is a common challenge.

> **Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) Configuration**: Configuring RBAC policies accurately and efficiently is crucial for secure access management. Designing and implementing RBAC rules that align with an organization's security requirements can be complex, particularly when dealing with a large number of users, teams, and applications.

Reviewer: This point and the earlier point on `Granularity vs Complexity Tradeoff` is similar, let us remove one of them or talk something else.

Reviewer: Same here, let us add these as bullet points so that it's easy to read and comprehend.

**Secrets Management**: Kubernetes has a built-in Secrets API to manage sensitive information, but securely managing access to these secrets can be challenging. Ensuring that only authorized entities can access and use secrets while keeping them protected from unauthorized access or accidental exposure requires careful configuration and monitoring.

**Auditing and Compliance**: Maintaining audit logs and ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements can be demanding in Kubernetes. Tracking and reviewing access logs, managing permissions and changes, and generating comprehensive reports are essential but can be time-consuming and require specialized tools or integrations.

Addressing these challenges often involves a combination of well-defined processes, training, automation, and the use of specialized tools to simplify access management and enhance security in Kubernetes environments.

> ## Entering Paralus, centralized RBAC and Authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enters Paralus, centralized RBAC and authentication solution
```

> Paralus is an open-source project that focuses on RBAC and authentication in Kubernetes environments. It offers a single pane of glass for RBAC management and enhances security through centralized control. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Paralus](https://github.io/paralus/paralus) is an open-source project that focuses on RBAC and authentication in Kubernetes environments. It offers a single pane of glass for RBAC management and enhances security through centralized control. 
```

<img src="/img/docs/paralus-platformcon-2023.png" alt="how paralus works" height="90%" width="90%"/>  

> ## Zero-Trust K8s Access with Paralus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Zero-Trust Kubernetes access with Paralus
```

Paralus grants authorized users seamless and secure access to all clusters with a native and familiar kubectl experience by acting as a proxy between the users and systems needing access and the K8s API server. It also addresses one of K8s' main pain points by eliminating the burden of managing K8s access controls cluster by cluster. Without Paralus, companies must manually manage access to each cluster using jump hosts or VPNs, and build custom tooling to audit and map all actions performed to a user's identity – all of which which is error-prone and increases the risk of breaches as the number of clusters grows.  

> **Thanks to Paralus, we can achieve the following outcomes**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Benefits of using Paralus:
```

**RBAC Simplification**: Paralus provides a centralized interface for managing RBAC across all clusters, enabling administrators to define and enforce role-based access at scale. This streamlines the process of granting permissions and ensures consistent authorization policies for developers.

**Audit Logging and Compliance**: Paralus captures detailed audit logs of user activities, allowing organizations to meet compliance requirements and investigate any security incidents or policy violations efficiently.

## Conclusion 

Managing multiple Kubernetes clusters and federating access while maintaining robust RBAC practices is a complex task. However, Paralus offers a comprehensive solution that simplifies cluster management, enhances security, and streamlines RBAC operations.

Paralus' centralized RBAC and authentication capabilities, organizations can effectively manage their clusters, achieve audit logging, and implement advanced RBAC practices, ultimately leading to improved efficiency, security, and compliance.

### PlatformCon 2023 More Trends, Better Collaborations, Future of Platform Engineering is bright 

> PlatformCon 2023 was packed with internal platform use cases, blueprints and stories from a wide range of companies and platform practitioners. Speakers revealed the continued excited journey, roadmap to succeeding at platform engineering with better developer productivity and accelerated product development.

Reviewer: Please rephrase this, it doesn't convey the message well.

Author: In this section I'm trying to highlight trends as it co-relates to our work.

Reviewer: `Speakers revealed the continued excited journey, roadmap to succeeding at platform engineering with better developer productivity and accelerated product development.`

This part isn't clear. 

Maybe we can rephrase it to `Developers shared their learnings and tips to succeed at platform engineering by improving developer productivity and product development.`

> And while there is no one-size-fits all approach to platform engineering. It boils down to each organization’s specific requirements, many speakers stressed that continuous maintenance and development of the platform are key ingredients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And while there is no one-size-fits-all approach to platform engineering,  it boils down to each organization’s specific requirements. Many speakers stressed that continuous maintenance and development of the platform are vital.
```

Developers are not necessarily the only users of the platform. Platform teams must thoroughly understand all of their internal user personas, and their needs, and develop the right kind of backend and user interfaces for the platform that delivers maximum value to all their internal users. 

> And if you are a platform operator big news, trend and focus was to completely remove or reduce the cognitive load from platform team's working on repetitive tasks including setting up RBAC, revoking permissions, pre-configuring roles across clusters, namespaces, projects, and more, **Paralus community is on a right track!!! **

Reviewer: Please rephrase this, we've used the same sentence earlier in the blog post as well. Also we need a CTA to try Paralus at the end of the blog post.

Author: I'm stressing here on the cognitive load and toil that's dev and ops teams are facing these days, what's the best way to describe a few words about it?

Reviewer: Maybe we can replace it with `The trending topic during the conference was about reducing cognitive load on platform developers by automating repetitive tasks they perform. And Paralus is helping with just that`

## Together We Can Grow!

We're a small team of maintainers and our project is easy to get involved with. And hence, we'd want you to join and contribute to Paralus. We'd love your involvement and support, here's what you can do:

- Join [#Paralus](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C04MK1JFFV3) on Kubernetes Slack
- Follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/paralus_)
- Give a star on [GitHub](https://github.com/paralus/paralus)
- Join Paralus as a [contributor](https://github.com/paralus/paralus/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
- You can refer to our [quickstart guides](https://www.paralus.io/docs/quickstart/) to get started with Paralus.

> #### We know RBAC, so you don't have too, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
